

A spirit of improvisation guides the design and construction of AIRs making it difficult to make a quantitative
comparison from site to site.  A holistic approach is required which uses the topographical conditions and water
demands of the construction site to choose the appropriate construction methodology and form of ice reservoir to
be produced.

There are also villages that still rely
on ice terraces for their water supply. [Other
publications](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10113-018-1372-0/tables/1) estimate that these
alternative construction strategies can store **30 times** more water than ice stupas. However, none of these
alternative construction strategies have been explored to date. Moreover, these alternative strategies remain
unoptimised further limiting their true potential.   

It requires an understanding of the
response of these AIRs both to meteorological conditions and construction strategies used.

\subsection{Minimum requirements}

Our results have shown that Swiss AIRs cannot function as water reservoirs due to their small size and short
survival duration. Therefore, construction of AIRs should not be carried out in locations with meteorological
conditions less favourable than the Swiss site.

It is not straightforward to compare the meteorological conditions between two sites. A proper comparison
requires the complete set of meteorological variables described in Section ?. In order to circumvent this, we
introduce a new metric that serves as an indicator of the water storage potential of any new site.

However, one indicator of the AIR water storage potential of any new site is the number of subzero hours
annually weighted by 

Another way to locate favourable regions is through occurence of aufeis fields

Naturally occuring aufeis fields and glaciers serve as a good indicator of where ice reservoirs can be made.

However, the topography requirements are sensitive to the form of AIRs used. The ice stupa form of AIRs are less
sensitive to solar radiation and therefore can exist in lower altitudes and non-shadowed zones compared to the
ice terrace form of AIRs. 

It is pointless to use lakes as water sources unless there is utility in draining and converting them to ice
structures. This is the case for glacial lakes which can be drained to prevent flash floods while using the
water supply to harvest ice structures.

AIRs are thus an important tool for water resource management particularly of cryosphere-fed irrigation systems.
However, their long-term efficacy and their usefulness as climate change adaptation strategies remains unknown
\citep{clouseLadakhArtificialGlaciers2017}. Therefore, quantifications of their water storage need to account
for the meteorological conditions present and construction methodologies used during AIR construction.

While much has been written about the promise of AIRs for irrigation water supply, very little data exists to
support these claims. 

We attempt to address this gap through a measurement campaign of AIRs built in India and Switzerland. This
campaign used drones, flowmeters and weather stations to create a calibration and validation dataset for a mass
and energy balance model. 

The influence of meteorological conditions on AIR water-use efficiency and maximum volume was quantified by
comparing the modelled volume evolution of Indian AIRs and Swiss AIRs.

The influence of the fountain characteristics on AIR water-use efficiency and maximum volume was quantified by
comparing the modelled volume evolution of AIRs produced with different fountain designs and scheduling
strategies.

AIR serve to bridge this gap in water availability by providing meltwater earlier in the agricultural season.
AIRs do so by exploiting gravity and freezing winter temperatures to amass a seasonal stock of ice. Many types
of AIRs exist. In the past these were built as horizontal ice sheets much higher up the mountains, making them
difficult to manage. Now, as ice cones, they are built next to where the water is needed most, right on the
outskirts of villages, near their fields.

Due to low temperatures and high variability of seasonal snow cover
\citep{mukhopadhyayReevaluationSnowmeltGlacial2015}, there is a shortage of water at the onset of the
agricultural season for about two months until a sufficient and reliable supply of meltwater from high altitude
glaciers becomes available. 

For centuries, in the Himalayan mountain ranges, local cultures have believed that glaciers are alive. And
what’s more, that certain glaciers can have different genders including male and female. These people ‘breed’
new glaciers by grafting together—or marrying—fragments of ice from male and female glaciers, then covering them
with charcoal, wheat husks, cloths, or willow branches so they can reproduce in privacy. These glacierets
transform into fully active glaciers that grow each year with additional snowfall. Those then serve as lasting
reserves of water that farmers can use to irrigate their crops. Over the years, these practices have inspired
other cultures, where people are creating their own artificial ice reservoirs (AIRs) and applying them to solve
serious modern challenges around water supplies.

Take Ladakh, a high-altitude desert region in northern India. It sits in the rain shadow of the Himalayas and
receives on average fewer than ten centimeters of rain/snow per year. As local glaciers shrink because of
climate change, regional water scarcity is increasing. And so, local farmers have started growing their own ice
reservoirs as insurance against this uncertainty. 

The compilation of these novel and comprehensive data sets and main results about the meteorological influences
are described and discussed in Paper II.

One approach to determine the freezing energy balance of this location could be used as a metric to define where
AIRs have utility as a water storage technology.

AIRs are engineered systems exploiting gravity and freezing winter temperatures to amass a seasonal stock of
ice. 

These AIRs are constructed as close to the villages as possible. Being at a lower altitude than the natural
glaciers, AIRS begin melting in April, providing irrigation just in time for the start of the agricultural
season.

Recent research has called for an examination of their long-term efficacy and their usefulness as climate change
adaptation strategies \citep{clouseLadakhArtificialGlaciers2017}. 

A spirit of improvisation guides the design and construction of AIRs making it difficult to make a quantitative
comparison from site to site.

The construction of ice terraces on south-facing slopes is regarded not only as a way to cope with water
scarcity but also as an adaptation to climate change \citep{norphelArtificialGlacierHigh2009}.

AIRs are engineered systems exploiting gravity and freezing winter temperatures to amass a seasonal stock of
ice.

Adequate crop production assumes a central role in the lives of mountain farmers, making the availability of
irrigation water indispensable. The chief components of that resource are meltwater from glaciers and seasonal
snow cover. However, seasonal melting of glaciers occurs quite late because of the regions's high altitude,
which delays the availability of glacial meltwater. This seasonal water scarcity makes it essential to provide
supplementary irrigation in order to take advantage of the complete growing season. 

Modelling is a powerful tool that allows to identify the causes of AIR volume dynamics in space and time.
However, in-situ observations are required to tie these models to reality.  

In this thesis a one dimensional model has been developed which is used as a tool to investigate the dynamics of
AIRs.

The ice volume dynamics due to the difference in weather patterns of the Swiss location and Indian
location can be summarised as follows: 

 It is not known who started the practice of glacier grafting, but according to oral history it is as old as the
local communities.
